Welcome to the Knox Video Training Series.
In just a few steps, you’ll learn how to manage Samsung firmware updates using Knox E-FOTA
directly within the SOTI MobiControl console. With Knox E-FOTA now integrated into SOTI MobiControl,
managing your Samsung devices is not only easier but also smarter.
Let’s get started!
Before we begin, make sure you have the following ready:
‧A valid Knox Suite license,
‧Access to Samsung Knox,
and
‧ A compatible Samsung device
enrolled in your SOTI console.
First, log in to the SOTI MobiControl console.
From the main dashboard, go to Global Settings.
This is where you’ll find the Samsung Knox E-FOTA integration menu.
Under the Android section, select Samsung Knox E-FOTA and click Login.
Choose Continue, then sign in with your Knox credentials. Approve the access request when prompted.
Once logged in, you’ll see a confirmation message: “Authentication Successful.”
Now your Knox E-FOTA license details and license sync options will appear.
To proceed, upload your validation certificate under Manage Notifications and click Save.
Manage Notifications needs to be configured so that you can see the status updates in the console.
enabling the 'notifications' option comes with potential security risks.
SOTI Mobicontrol will not validate any incoming messages as it is not recommended best practice.
SOTI has created an option to do automatic device uploads for Knox E-FOTA by configuring the Auto Upload Enrolled Devices option.
But if you need devices to be uploaded right away there is a manual option.
Select your device, click More, and choose 'Upload Device to Knox E-FOTA'.
This requires that your device is already enrolled in the SOTI console.
Then, sync the device status to confirm the upload was successful.
If a notification certificate is already configured.
You can also just refresh the dashboard to see the changes.
Next, we’ll install the Knox E-FOTA agent.
You can do this either by creating an App Policy or a Profile—just choose one method.
For the App Policy:
Go to Policies, the Apps menu and click "NEW APP POLICY."
Choose Android Enterprise and enter a name for your app policy.
In the Apps tab, search for Knox E-FOTA in Managed Google Play and select it.
Click the three dots next to the app and choose Configure.
Set the App Update Priority to High and enable “Launch App After Installation.”
When you’re done, click Save, then Save and Assign, and apply it to your device group.
Alternatively, to use a Profile:
Go to Profiles and click "ADD PROFILE."
Choose Android > Work Managed.
Enter a name and go to the "CONFIGURATIONS" tab.
Click the plus icon, select OEMConfig, and choose Samsung.
In the pop-up, enable device policy controls under Device-wide Policies.
Then enable the firmware update policy options and select Enable E-FOTA client installation and Launch.
Click Save, assign the profile to your device group, and finish by clicking Assign.
Now let’s confirm the agent installation on your device.
Go to Devices in the sidebar, select your device, and click the Remote Control icon.
Once connected, continue through the installation prompts for Knox E-FOTA.
After installation, open the app to check that it’s enrolled correctly.
Then, back in the SOTI console, sync the device status once again to update the view or simply refresh the dashboard
if you have configured the notification certificate.
Your device should now show as enrolled in Knox E-FOTA, but with no policy applied yet.
Now it’s time to create your firmware management policy—the Samsung Knox E-FOTA campaign.
Go to Policies > Firmware Management > Samsung Knox E-FOTA.
Here you can configure settings like Basic Info, Schedule, network usage, and device condition and more.
Click Save and Assign, select the target devices, and click Next.
devices are grouped based on common Model/Sales/CSC code, which helps in organized management.
In the Firmware tab, choose how updates will be applied:
You can assign a specific version, lock the current version, always use the latest, or allow only up to a set version.
Once selected, click OK and Assign. Your device now follows the firmware policy you just created.
And that’s it!
Your Samsung devices are now managed with Knox E-FOTA through the SOTI console.
For more guides and technical resources, visit docs.samsungknox.com.
Thanks for watching!